[Music]
ten foods you shouldn't give your pet
we're all guilty of it but how can you
not give Fido a little
something-something off your dinner
plate when he's looking up at you with
those big round puppy eyes no matter how
much it breaks your heart
you really shouldn't give in there are
so many foods out there that are
perfectly harmless to people but can be
dangerously toxic for pets so here's a
little guide for you on what you should
never give to your furry little friends
but Before we jump right in don't forget
to subscribe to our channel and hit that
notification bell so that you won't miss
any of our updates number 10
onion and garlic thankfully most cats
and dogs will turn away from the pungent
stench of an onion or garlic clove if
they're uninformed owner offers it to
them but in case your pet is a walking
garbage disposal make sure it can't get
to these foods and of course never give
them to your furry companion according
to the pet poison help line a 24-hour
Animal Poison Control Center plants and
vegetables in the onion family such as
garlic leeks shallots and chives to name
a few contain propyl disulfide this
chemical destroys an animal's red blood
cells causing anemia which in severe
cases can do serious damage to the
internal organs the most common symptoms
are nausea vomiting diarrhea lethargy
abdominal pain and an increased heart
rate they usually appear within several
days if you suspect that your pet has
onion or garlic poisoning take action
and contact your vet immediately number
nine lilies according to dr. Justin Lee
a board-certified emergency critical
care veterinary specialist and
toxicologist lilies are extremely toxic
to animals and can destroy their kidneys
if consumed there are actually two types
of lilies out there benign and dangerous
ones but nine lilies include the piece
Peruvian and calla varieties they pose
the less of a threat to your pet since
they don't come from the lilium or her
marrow callous families but that doesn't
mean they're totally harmless they can
still irritate the mouth tongue
throat and esophagus if your pet suffers
from benign Lily poisoning give them
something tasty like canned chicken
broth to help flush the crystals out of
their mouth and clear up these
unpleasant symptoms and then there's the
other type of lilies like tiger lilies
day lilies Easter lilies red lilies and
many more they're highly toxic and
potentially fatal for your pet
especially cats dangerous lilies can
cause a loss of appetite vomiting
excessive urinating and increased
salivation as with any case of poisoning
the sooner you get your pet to the vet
the better
Lily poisoning is especially serious
though treatment usually requires three
whole days of hospitalization number
eight avocados avocados have a ton of
health benefits so you should definitely
try to include them in your diet the
same can't be said about your pets
avocados contain a fungicidal toxin
called person according to the pet
poison help line it has a mild level of
toxicity only targeting certain species
basic signs of person poisoning include
gastrointestinal problems troubles
breathing and heart issues in both dogs
and cats foreign body obstruction is
another risk when it comes to avocados
if your pet swallows the pit-hole it can
get stuck in their esophagus stomach or
intestinal tract so make sure that your
pets have no access not only to avocados
but also to pits you might have tossed
in the trash
number 7 coffee and chocolate everybody
seems to know about the no chocolate
rule for pets so this one probably comes
as no surprise as for coffee well I
don't know anybody that sits down to
have their morning Joe alongside their
cat or dog but still let's talk about
why your pets shouldn't have either one
according to the pet poison help line
caffeine can be anywhere for moderately
to severely toxic to an animal it can
cause elevated heart rate and body
temperature excessive urination
dehydration tremors seizures and
possibly death chocolate has its fair
share of awful consequences too
especially dark chocolate since it
contains more theobromine this is the
substance that makes chocolate toxic to
animals
so when people say their dog got
chocolate poisoning it's actually
theobromine poisoning it's early
symptoms include digestive issues
dehydration and a slow heart rate later
stages of theobromine poisoning include
seizures and even death
always keep chocolate out of your pet's
reach so that they won't be tempted to
try it
number six bones dogs and bones are like
macaroni and cheese they just go hand in
hand we're not saying you can't give
spot a big juicy bone that you are in
fact you absolutely should bones are a
great source of minerals and nutrients
for your canine companion plus the act
of chewing stimulates saliva enzymes
which helps prevent gum disease and
plaque buildup on the teeth you just
have to be careful which types of bones
you're going to give your dog according
to the American Kennel Club poultry
bones like chicken or turkey as well as
pork bones and any cooked bones are
strictly forbidden these types splinter
into shards that can not only choke a
dog but also do serious damage to its
mouth throat or intestines most vets
agree that raw meat bones are okay but
you should still supervise your dog
while it chews on one don't let your dog
chew on a bone for more than 15 minutes
after that put it in the fridge until
the next time you give it to your pooch
throw any raw bones away after three or
four days size is also important the
bones should be larger than the length
of your dog's muzzle otherwise it
presents a choking hazard if swallowed
whole since any bone can break into
dangerous shards when shoot on enough a
lot of dog owners feel it's not worth
the risk you can always give your pup
high quality nutrient-rich dog food good
dental shoes and regular teeth brushing
to replace what bone chewing provides
but still bones are not you should be
doing all these things anyway
number five apples
it might come as a surprise that's
something we humans should be eating
once a day to keep the doctor away can
be bad for our pets but alas here it is
on the blacklist it's red apples in
particular that are a no-no for your cat
or dog because they can cause an
allergic reaction and it's not really
the Apple itself that's dangerous it's
the seeds they contain cyanide which is
perfectly safe for people in small doses
but extremely harmful for animals
vomiting diarrhea and dehydration are
the first signs of poisoning and it's
not just apples though you can find such
seeds and cherries and apricots too if
your pet ingest these cyanide filled
seeds take it to the vet immediately
number four tomatoes tomatoes along with
potatoes and eggplant contain a chemical
compound called Sala 9 it's concentrated
mostly in the green parts of these
plants like the leaves and stem as well
as in unripe vegetables while we humans
are pretty much unscathed by it our pets
aren't so much if your dog has gotten
into your tomato garden and eaten what
he shouldn't as they love to do be on
the lookout for signs of tomato
poisoning
they include digestive problems loss of
coordination muscle weakness tremors and
seizures one totally ripe tomato a week
shouldn't cause any harm to your pet but
it's always best to ask your vet first
just in case number three raw eggs
finally a food on the list that's bad
for both humans and their four-legged
fur babies the avidin found in egg
whites disrupts the metabolism of
vitamin B in the body this blockage can
lead to dry flaky skin which can become
infected if your pet scratches at it too
much given that dry skin is often itchy
the threat is real according to the
American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals bacterial
contamination is another danger here
just like people cats and dogs can get
salmonella or E coli poisoning from
consuming raw eggs these bacteria can be
in both the white and the yolk so you
should always cook your eggs before
eating them or sharing them with your
pet
number two grapes and raisins to show
you just how toxic these foods are for
pets consider this just half an ounce of
grapes can poison a 10-pound dog and
it's all because of the negative effect
grapes and raisins have on your animals
kidneys signs of poisoning include
lethargy loss of appetite diarrhea
vomiting and dehydration don't wait for
it to clear up on its own you've got to
take your pet to the vet in case of food
poisoning of course the best treatment
is prevention
make sure your furry friends don't have
access to any of the foods on this list
and that includes number one ice cream
that's right
know sweet delicious mouth-watering ice
cream for your feline or canine
companion tough luck Fido the main issue
here is all that milk and sugar
since most adult animals are lactose
intolerant ice cream doesn't really
agree with our system so instead of
feeling the pure joy you or I get from
gulping down a bowl of ice cream your
pet gets diarrhea vomiting and
gastrointestinal issues plus all that
sugar means unpleasant dental problems
no matter how much your dog or cat is
trying to get some of your ice cream
don't give in after all their health and
well-being it's what's most important
here right do you know any other foods
that are harmful for dogs or cats tell
us what we missed in the comments below
since this is really important
information to get out there be sure to
share this video with everyone you know
don't forget to give us a like and click
that subscribe button to always stay on
the bright side of life
[Music]